if you look at our closest genetic
relative to human beings and be the
chimpanzee where we share like 98 plus
percent identical DNA we are smarter
than a chimpanzee
so let's invent a measure of
intelligence that make humans unique
let's say intelligence is your ability
to like compose poetry symphonies do our
math and science let's say okay listen
make that as the arbitrary definition of
intelligence for the moment chips can't
do any of that yet we share 98 99
percent identical DNA okay
the most brilliant chimp there ever was
maybe can do a little bit of sign
language well our toddlers can do that
toddlers so here's what concerns me
deeply deeply everything that we are
that distinguishes us from chimps
emerges from that 1% difference in DNA
that's true because that's the
difference the Hubble telescope these
grand that's in that 1% maybe everything
that we are that is not the chimp is not
as smart compared to the chimp as we
tell ourselves it is maybe the
difference between constructing and
launching a Hubble telescope and it
simpkin beining to finger motions as
sign language maybe that difference is
not all that great we tell ourselves it
is just the same way we label our books
optical illusions we tell ourselves it's
a lot maybe it's almost nothing how
would we decide that imagine another
life-form that's 1% different from us in
the direction that we are different from
think about that we have 1% difference
and we're building the Hubble telescope
go one go another 1% whoo what are we
today we would be drooling blithering
idiots in their presence that's what we
would be we would they would take
Stephen Hawking and roll him in front of
their their primate researchers and say
well this one is like the most brilliant
among them because he can do sort of
astrophysics in his head Oh hasn't that
cute little Johnny can do that too Oh
Johnny just let me get it it's on the
refrigerator door here he is he did it
in his elementary school class think
about how smart they would be quantum
mechanics would be intuitive to their
toddlers whole symphonies would be
written by their children and like I
said just put up on the refrigerator
door the way our pasta collages are on
our refrigerator doors so the notion
that we're going to find some
intelligent life and have a conversation
well the last time you stopped to have a
conversation with a worm or bird
although you might have had a
conversation but I don't think you
expected an answer all right so we don't
have conversations with any other
species on earth we have DNA in common
to believe that some intelligent other
species is going to be interested in us
enough to have a conversation now look
at all Hubble telescope what's ours in
that quaint liquor right there doing so
I lay awake at nights wondering whether
simply we as a species are simply too
stupid to figure out the universe that
we're investigating and maybe we need
some other species 1% 1% smarter than we
are
for which strength theory would be
intuitive for which all the greatest
mysteries of the universe from dark
matter dark energy the origins of life
and all the frontiers of our thought
would be something that they were just
self into it I'm jealous of that
possibility because I want to be around
for those discoveries thank you all